---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Smart Questions, Good Answers
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2016-08-06
labels:
  - Culture
  - Modern Literary Trends 
  - Oceania 
---

Grand Finale
	For my final project in English 313, I chose to make a comic, or rather, a series of mini comics. Focusing on the similarities between the post apocalyptic fiction stores and the effects of colonization of the pacific. For both, the worlds changed radically and the old ways of life could never be fully recovered. There are many who will try and preserve what they can, but nothing will ever quite be the same. In my comic I chose the fictional worlds of Oryx and Crake, The Hunger Games, The Islands at the End of the World, and The Road.  These worlds compared to Polynesia had many similarities; destruction of the natural environment, oppression of the survivors, mass death, dissert among the survivors, erasion of culture (both purposefully and unintentionally) and for both the world may have seemed like it was coming to an end (or already had). The apocalypse and colonization both cause irrefutable damage that will take generations to recover from, if they recover at all. 
	Professor Steven Holmes class discussion July 20, The Basement, talked about how the victim role in many science fiction stories is based on class not race. The lowest class being poor white people, instead of the racial distinction seen today. I found this interesting, this was something I had not noticed but after it was pointed out does seem to hold true. If the stories had used real minorities as the victims, then the (assembly white) audience would be forced to confront truly marginalized people and actual oppression they have caused. Hard truths are off putting and may hurt the author’s revenue. The solution, avoid topics of race and use something else to segregate the population. To illustrate the real life strife that is portrayed in post| apocalyptic works is the inspiration for the comics. 
	In my first mini comic I compare the destruction of native flora and fauna to the barren world in The Road. Separated from the rest of the world Hawaii’s native species evolved without predators. Birds lay their eggs on the ground, plants with thorns are now soft, and poisonous plants only smell bad. When the Hawai’ians arrived they brought many new species, such as rats, pigs, and poi. The rats quickly reproduced and ate through much of the forests. When the Europeans came, they brought cats to kill the mongooses (which were eating all the bird eggs), but the two species hunted during opposite hours and ended up decreasing the native bird population even faster. Since then, numerous species have gone extinct and many more are on the endangered list. This massive loss of nature is similar to the gray world of The Road; which had gray burnt trees, and a single dog. The Road is an extreme version of what happened in Hawai’i but not so different from what happened in Rapa Nui. According to archeological records, Rapa Nui once lad lush forests full of trees and soil capable of agriculture. No there are few trees, most likely due to infestation of rats, and the land is no longer suitable for agriculture because of extensive sheep farming (Hunt and Lipo, 2012). Once a lush tropical island, now a dry burnt out tropical island. 
	My second mini comic is about oppression of the survivors. A group of business men decided that trading would be better if Hawai’i was made part of America. So they over threw the monarchy. 1887 the Bayonet Constitution was forcibly signed, abolishing the Hawai’ian monarchy’s authority. The current president did not agree to annex Hawai’i so the business men created their own kingdom. When locals tried to gain their kingdom back, the business men put Queen Liliuokalani under house arrest as punishment and declared that the actions taker were treason. Even though the local’s actions were the same as the action he business men took to rise into power. The presidency change and the new president decided to annex Hawai’i. These events were not entirely peaceful, the American government even sent out ships to Hawai’i to “protect American property and interests” (An Annexation,2009). Similarly, in The Hunger Games, Peace Keepers patrol all districts to protect the Panamá’s interests.
	My Third mini comic is about the massive amounts of death that literally plagued the people. In Oryx and Crake, the disease was engineered by Crake with the intention of killing off the entire human population. On a smaller scale Colonialist inadvertently spread new diseases that natives had no resistance to. These foreigners would sail ashore, refill supplies and head off, unaware of the effects of their visit. In extreme cases, such as the one on Pohnpei (technically Micronesia but I am still using it as an example), an outbreak of small pox left most of the population decimated. People were dying so fast that some were barred before they were actually dead and they had to crawl out of their grave -- there was a mass grave as well (Hanlon, 2015). This is like Oryx and Crake, where many were never even berried and the population total severely declined. 
	My fourth mini comic is about the unrest the survivors feel. An example of this is the revolt in The Hunger Games. The citizens in the districts are so oppressed by the capital that they stage a full scale revolution, waging war against the capital. A not so violent alternative is a protest against the wrong doings. On October 8, 1897, after Hawai’i has been unfairly annexed by America, thousands Hawaiian citizens and supporters gathered in protest (An Annexation,2009). 
	My fifth mini comic is about the erasion of culture. There were many missionaries in the Pacific	 who spread the word of God by teaching natives how to read and write English or Spanish, so they could read The Bible. Judeo-Christian religions that were trying to make roots in the Pacific taught against practices, such as revealing skin, Hula, and polytheism. Once in power, Europeans often banned these practices all together, however these things are a major part in Oceanic culture. Hula tells history, polytheism was their religion which guided their entire life, and it is way too hot in Pacific to be fully covered all the time. By restricting these and many other aspects of Oceanic culture, much was lost. Just as in The Road, once the world fell into chaos, history, religion, culture, was lost. There are few who hold on to bits and pieces but majority of the past cannot ever be remembered. The father holds on to morals and the old religion as best he can, but things like traditional children stories or the rules to a card game are lost (McCarthy, 2006). 
	My sixth mini comic revolves around the striking contrast between the before and after pictures of two worlds. The Islands at the End of the World and Pacific Islands both start out in lush tropical life and spiral into unforeseeable destruction. For Lei and for the native Hawai’ian people the beautiful world they once knew is gone, only a strange and harsh reality ahead. However, Lei starts her story feeling like an outsider in the islands and find herself feeling more and more at home. While the Hawaii’s have found themselves displaced in a land they once considered their home. 
During colonial era, European countries set out across the globe on various missions. The results of these missions was the colonization of much of the world.  The pacific was soon dominated by Europe, with the exception of Hawai’i which was annexed by America, and Tonga which remained more or less independent. Since then many islands have declared independence, some are still colonies, and Hawai’i is still an American State. Each group of islands is unique and received these foreigners differently, there were massive language and culture barriers between the two parties, so records left by the colonist must be taken with a grain of salt. 

Works Cited
"An Annexation Timeline Kingdom of Hawaii." Kingdom of Hawai'i Nation. Majesty Akahi Nui 
U/d P.O. Box 2845 Moku'aina O Wailuku, Mokupuni O Maui Ke Aupuni O Hawai'i, 2009. Web. 10 Aug. 2016. 

Aslan, Austin. The Islands at the End of the World. N.p.: n.p., n.d. Print. 

Atwood, Margaret. Oryx and Crake: A Novel. New York: Nan A. Talese, 2003. Print. 

Collins, Suzanne. The Hunger Games. Abbotsford, BC: Braille.com, 2008. Print. 

Hanlon, David. "Hist 481." History 481 Pacific Islands 1. University of Hawai'i at Manoa, 
	Holululu. Fall 2015. Lecture. 

McCarthy, Cormac. The Road. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2006. Print. 
